_This document is a work in progress, please make PRs_

----------------------------------------
# Preamble
The Cosmos community, at a crossroads, confronts divergent views on key aspects
such as mission, tokenomics, and security philosophy. AtomOne emerges as a
beacon, offering an alternative fork to navigate these waters, equipped to
handle contingencies and embodying a bastion for diverse political thought.

## Declaration of Genesis
There comes a time when there is enough disagreement among community members
and stakers about key concerns regarding the business of their chain, such as
its vision, mission, tokenomics, architecture, or philosophy; that it makes the
most sense to support an alternative fork running alongside the original so as
to be prepared against all contingencies.

Recent times have seen the Cosmos community grappling with significant
challenges stemming from differences about core tokenomics, about the very
nature of the $ATOM token (whether it is staking or monetary), about
monetization trategy and what types of projects to fund; and there generally
appears to be a great cultural chasm that shows no sign of closing about our
role and responsibilities as compared to our profit interests.

These have now made clear the need for a new hub with a renewed focus and
alignment to serve as the canonical minimal IBC/ICS token hub with respect to
Cosmos, and secondarily to serve as the main base for a political party with
respect to Gaia to champion the ideals of sovereignty, security and
decentralization everywhere.

### Vision and Missions
The vision behind this AtomOne fork is to be an alternative minimal fork of
Gaia ("cosmoshub4") running on standby to prepare for all contingencies, and
also to operate as a political party base in relation to Gaia. We strive to
complement the broader Cosmos ecosystem while introducing innovative solutions
and perspectives. Our goals are not just to resolve current challenges but are
also to set a new precedent for adaptive and responsive self-organization in
the multichain multitoken universe that we call the Cosmos.

AtomOne will lead the development and praxis of giving representation to every
subcommunity (or political party), each defined and strengthened by their own
living constitutions that state their values, missions, philosophies and so on.
This will foster a more diverse ecosystem of specialized zones in coopetition
(cooperation and competition) with each other despite irreconciliable
differences. AtomOne will be a base for many more partyhubs, and itself
function as a partyhub in relation to Gaia.

#### Role as Minimal IBC/ICS Hub
AtomOne will re-commit to the original vision and primary mission of Gaia to
serve as a minimal IBC/ICS hub secured by a staking token. We believe that
minimizing the risk profile is necessary as an existential issue for the hub,
and an issue of financial security of the highest order for not just the hub
but its hosted shards and IBC connected network (in other words, everyone).

IBC/ICS hubs should in general remain conservative in its function and offer
utility through dependability and scaling. Any experiments that change the
nature of the hub belong in new forks or splits, and an ideal hub enables them
as supportive parents to children. In the Cosmos there is no need for
contention as on Earth because there is no limitation of finite land.

We are not concerned about any business plan or tokenomics strategy for the
AtomOne hub besides offering the scaling of transaction throughput through
ICS1.5. We anticipate that our approach will successfully and sufficienty
capture the (massive) niche market need for utmost security in IBC token
transactions and ICS1.5 shard hosting, and serve as the basis for all the
functionality that all people will need and want; and if it cannot be done
through the spirit of these Founding Documents and the living AtomOne
Constitution then it shall be done in the next generation that splits or forks
from this AtomOne hub.

The term "minimal" refers not to the totality of functionality offered by all
the chains and shards hosted by ICS1.5, but rather the design of the root shard
of the AtomOne hub and its core economics and business plan and its
responsibilities; sometimes confusingly referred to as simply "the hub". A
"minmal hub" should be understood in this context; so smart contract systems
and VMs would not belong on the minimal hub, but they are exactly what ICS1.5
is meant to enable on AtomOne. 

The key goal is to always distinguish what is the necessary core owned by
AtomOne, in order to enable all within reason that is not core. The hub's root
shard, IBC, and ICS1.5 implementation should stay minimal and only perform what
is specified in the Founding Documents, or amended to the living AtomOne
Constitution. The business plan of the hub must be strictly limited to what is
defined in these documents. All other functionality can be hosted on top of the
ICS1.5 hosting layer.

We also need to take care to be explicit about who or what governing body is
responsible for which ICS1.5 shards or chains. The ones that are owned and
governed by AtomOne itself are called "core shards" (since they shard the
necessary functionality of AtomOne) while those hosted on behalf of others are
called "consumer chains". AtomOne should not subsidize any ICS1.5 core shards
that are not necessary to fulfill the specification of these documents.

When it comes to the innovative spirit and creative potential beyond those
specified in these founding documents and the living constitution, we recommend
that they be implemented as ICS1.5 hosted zones, and only in those cases where
AtomOne can provably not solve the problem at hand through ICS1.5 hosting
should a fork of AtomOne or a new chain be proposed with an entirely different
constitution. The spririt of the AtomOne Constitution and the general mission
and purpose of the AtomOne hub as a utility must not change. 

#### Significance as a Political Base 
There are many of us Cosmonauts and of those users of Gaia that are aligned
with the values, principles, original mission of the hub and the present
mission of AtomOne, but we have no base of operations. In contrast, the
informal opposition majority party (which came about first) is well organized
in comparison, often behind closed doors. Meanwhile "liquid staking" providers
are providing a service that does more than liquid staking, but have their own
governance and powers and thus act as a kind of political base. For example,
which validators to stake to is determined through governance in
Informal/Stride.

We prefer to operate with radical transparency in the open, and our name should
reflect our values, so we hereby call ourselves the "Decentralists". The
Decentralists are the opposition conservative party for the Cosmos Hub named
Gaia, and AtomOne is the Decentralists' initial ICS host. 

Decentralists:
 * Embody radical transparency.
 * Accept both splitting and negotiating.
 * Define protocols for interoperability.
 * Finish software given a name.
 * Respect first principles, so
 * Require constitutions and bylaws.
 * Create rather than destroy.

It is important to note that AtomOne is a proof-of-stake hub governed by $ATOM1
tokens, while the Decentralists is a membership oriented quasi-political party
with members associated with various companies (or individual proprietors). The
various missions and objectives of this party may eventually drift from the
missions and objectives of AtomOne because the people may be focused on
different things over time and less on time-proven infrastructure, but the core
values must remain the same and the vision compatible with those declared here.

AtomOne may enforce criteria for Decentralists membership (and temporary bans
and suspensions) with a Constitutional Majority for the purpose of ensuring the
alignment of the Decentralists members with AtomOne, provided that it also
offers everyone excluded the right (through Apache2.0 or more liberal licenses,
or \*GPL\* and GnoPL licenses) and the ability with reasonable ease to maintain
a prior fork of Decentralists membership under a different brand name distinct
from either AtomOne or Decentralists. 

This tight coupling is necessary between AtomOne and the Decentralists brands
because the success of either are tied together and we prefer a more open
membership policy for the Decentralists for growth, but the people ultimately
determine what a name means. After a period of 7 years after genesis the
Decentralists can vote via a supermajority or constitutional majority to become
self-sovereign and remove the ability for AtomOne to enforce anything about the
membership of the Decentralists.  Correspondingly AtomOne can choose any other
membership group (or any other type of group or DAO) to replace the
Decentralists at that time with the same system but with a new criteria for
membership, under a new name.

Initially the only critieria for Decentralists membership is that members hold
any nonzero amount of $ATOM1 or $phATOM\* tokens (more on $phATOM later) and
agree with the spirit of the Founding Documents, and agree to at all times
abide by and enforce the living AtomOne constitution, and agree to any future
proportionate measured punishments especially in the form of slashing for any
staked $ATOM1 tokens, both for AtomOne itself and for any splits or forks.

While we respect the stakers and the staking distribution, we also recognize
that the unequal token distribution must be balanced by the natural inalienable
God given powers to individual humans who are vital to make this project
succeed. While the voting on AtomOne is handled solely by the $ATOM1 stakers,
the Decentralists self-organize as a whole and with groups within, and every
proposal in the governance of the Gaia and AtomOne hubs as well as every open
group are enriched with the best arguments from both sides of the isle as
measured by feedback from all the members of the Decentralists. In short, the
democratic distribution offered by the Decentralists is used to rank the
arguments for and against every proposal to be voted on by stakeholders.

The chain explorers and wallets that display information about AtomOne and Gaia
hub proposals and the proposals of Decentralists open groups should display the
Decentralists official summary in full (but can customize the order or make
highlights), or they should link to the appropriate Decentralists resource so
users can see all of the related commentary. These are not enforced but are
incentivized through the portion of block rewards reserved for blockchain
explorers and wallets. 

While it may appear that the Decentralists and its integration into AtomOne are
unnecessary complexifications not fit for a "minimal hub", it does address the
real need for a long term development roadmap for AtomOne to improve our
communications amidst irreconciliable differences, the need to give
self-aligned groups more voice through self-organization, and the need for a
long term vision of a market of competing systems and designs that incorporate
a comprehensive range of components from virtual machines, smart contract
systems, DAO frameworks, to end-user interfaces; that offer transparent and
accountable disbursement of funds and decision making for every organization.
The tooling we develop under the brand of Decentralists will be made available
broadly in all communities and serve to introduce more people to AtomOne and
its generations.

#### Role as $ATOM "Liquid Staking" Provider

Offer a standard $ATOM bonding zone to compete with Stride-like "liquid
staking". These $ATOMs will be automatically delegated via ICA (interchain
accounts) to aligned validators as determined by the the system determined
by the $ATOM1 stakers. We call these managed tokens $phATOM tokens. In
addition $ATOM1 tokens will also be bondable to $phATOM1 tokens. In return
for delegating voting decisions from $ATOM bonders ($phATOM holders) to
$ATOM1 stakers, the AtomHub offers the $phATOM holders the opportunity for
al perpetuity, the unification of $phATOM and $phATOM1 according to a
reasonable exchange ratio as determined by the best available means, but no
more favorable to $phATOM than 1:1 by total market cap between $phATOM and
$phATOM1. // In the case of Gaia failure, this could be seen as a detriment
to $phATOM1 holders because their underlying $ATOM1 claims from $phATOM1
has seemingly shrunk by up to half; but if the $ATOM token were to
recover it would now be of benefit to $phATOM1 holders; and this is an
agreement that was pre-established in these Founding Documents to help
incentivize the bonding of both $ATOM as well as $ATOM1, so overall it is
from the beginning a mutually beneficial agreement.

### Expected Outcomes and Benefits 

We believe that by embracing diversity and fostering open dialogue between
competing self-aligned groups we can create a more robust, innovative, and
decentralized ecosystem. 

The diversity of specialized self-organized groups and forks (composed of
aligned members) will accelerate innovation and implementation through
parallelism.

The diversity of competitive groups and forks will reduce risk at the local and
global levels; at the local level through competition of implementations, and
at the global level through the diversity of hubs and frameworks.

Our approach with the Decentralists in relation to AtomOne is expected to bring
voice to all groups and individuals with valid opinons in the governing of both
stake-based bodies and more democratic bodies and everything in between. The
benefits will extend beyond immediate technical solutions, contributing to a
more vibrant and collaborative blockchain and global community.

## Terms

* AtomOne: an opinionated fork of the Cosmos hub Gaia with chainid
  "cosmoshub4". It is a minimal IBC-token-pegging and ICS hosting hub.
* Decentralists: AtomOne aligned members of Cosmos, and serve as a political
  party within the Cosmos ecosystem.
* Constitutional Majority: a consensus threshold set at a higher bar than the
  standard two-thirds majority; It is initially set at 90% and cannot be
  lowered even with Constitutional Majority. This elevated threshold aims to
  ensure broader agreement and inclusivity in critical decision-making
  processes. It reflects a commitment to achieving near-unanimous consensus on
  essential governance decisions, enhancing the legitimacy and stability of the
  outcomes.
* IBC: short for Inter-Blockchain Communication, is a protocol that enables
  communication between different blockchain networks using Byzantine Fault
  Tolerant (BFT) light client proofs. It allows for the transfer of assets and
  information across independent blockchains, fostering interoperability and
  flexibility in the blockchain ecosystem. IBC is a cornerstone of the Cosmos
  network's architecture, enabling its vision of an 'Internet of Blockchains'.
* ICS: short for Inter-blockChain Security, is a mechanism for running multiple
  shard chains under the same validator set. ICS1.5 is an upgrade to ICS1 that
  improves inter-shard communication efficiency. ICS1 and ICS1.5 help scale the
  core functionality of AtomOne as well as offer anyone the service of running
  "consumer chains" for any purpose (within the guidelines set forth by
  AtomOne) secured and hosted by the same validator set as the AtomOne hub root
  and core shards.
* Zone: an independent or ICS hosted chain (or a dapp hosted on a smart
  contract chain or an instance on a parent chain) with a well-defined
  governing body or bodies that dictate the governance and economic rules
  internal to that zone. A zone is sovereign or partially sovereign.
* Fork: a pure copy or an opinionated copy of a distribution with either
  substantially the same or different blockchain software.
* Spoon: like a fork but more inclusive of more distributions, and more as a
  means to invite members to entirely new projects rather than to mutate from
  the starting point of the original host.
* Split: a fork including the original (if it survives) that preserves the
  overall invariant that any specific token or member that goes to one fork
  does not appear in any other.

----------------------------------------
# Objectives

All users and members must agree with these objectives, and at all times when
contributing take all appropriate actions to meet these objectives both in the
AtomOne software as well as open hardware. Otherwise they are at risk of
judgement by AtomOne or any other community or governing set.

These objectives can only be changed through Constitutional Majority.

## 1. Define $ATOM1

The $ATOM1 is defined to be a staking token of a minimal ICS1.5 IBC AtomOne Hub
that keeps 2/3 of $ATOM1s staked at all times.

All forks that lose consensus continuity must change their token ticker symbol
to be distinct from $ATOM1 ($ATOM2 is ok). If there are competing chains with
comparably similar continuity, then the fork that has a higher market cap (as
measured after both tokens have discovered fair market value with sufficient
liquidity for at least one week) should retain the name while other forks
change their token ticker symbol.

Any changes to the distribution besides slashing for pre-established slashing
conditions such as any additional premines (besides those in the original first
genesis) disqualify the fork from retaining the same token ticker symbol; those
are new airdrops of a different token.

No additional premines besides those already defined in this planning document
are allowed for any forks whose token shall be called $ATOM1.

## 2. Hub Minimalism

Hub minimalism does not mean that the functionality of the AtomOne hub is
restricted; but it does imply among other things that the main hub chain's
logic is reasonably restricted to those that coordinate the many shard (or
consumer) chains.

In particular, the hub's root chain lacks a complex VM implementation, but
rather requires VMs to live on other non-root shards. This is the best way to
scale to billions of users while providing specialization and isolation. For
example, your home internet WIFI network is provided by a minimal router
hardware, while your backup harddrives and your desktop computer are separate
machines that only connect to the router.

Any fixed functionality that could run on alternative VMs should be translated
into the dominant language of the official approved software, which for us is a
recent version of Go(lang) 1.xx. We should remind ourselves that every virtual
machine has (had) numerous zero day exploits. The added security vulnerability
surface area of the new VM combined with the compiler to compile one language
for the VM, as well as the added complexity of needing to audit another
language, can and must all be avoided.

Mixing implementations across validators is also to be avoided so as to prevent
a failure arising from a low Nakamoto coefficient among the types of
implementations.

Arbitrary smart contract functionality should not be allowed on the main hub
chain, which should instead be reserved primarily for ICS1.5 shard coordination
and governance voting as safety and liveness critical functionality.

The hub will not be used for experimentation. Experimentation should occur in
other zones. Let's demonstrate that a minimalist hub is not the same as a
minimalist ecosystem and how we can create a pioneering ecosystem. Any new
feature proposals for the hub should be considered only after a successful and
adequately long testing period in other zones.

## 3. Validator Incentives

Fix Validator incentives so that every validator is PAID to run ICS consumer
chains and hub shards. Actually, develop a minimal economic model that accurately
describes physical reality in an intuitive and adaptable way for all scenarios.
Let's implement a system where every ICS chain pays supermajority to validators!

## 4. Governance

See [github.com/decentralists/DAO](https://github.com/decentralists/DAO/tree/main/governance)

Fix governance. We already have proposals in the works on GitHub decentralists
DAO / governance. Contribute there so that Governance is fixed and we stop
spending money like a flock of headless geese.

## 5. "Liquid Staking"

Fix "liquid staking". What we have isn't liquid staking, they are "partyhubs".
What people want are liquid fungible tokens that aren't so inflationary, I get
it. ICS scaling will fix the problem, but if you really want more, fix LS to
delegate pro-rata, NOT have its own gov. Or, over time, possibly create a
bicameral gov structure w/ exponentially inflating $ATOM1 stakers, and limit
how $PHOTON reverts to $ATOM1 to prevent hostile takeover. VP(staked $ATOM1)
>= VP(all $PHOTON).

TODO: Comparison between liquid staking and (collective) "liquid staking".

Later we show the $phATOM token which is deflationary AND liquid, yet fully
backed by $ATOM1s.

## 6. Declaration of Independence & Constitution

Adopt a Declaration of Independence and Constitution with cryptographic
signatures.

See [draft declaration](./TODO) and [draft constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md).

## 7. IBC1.5

Solve IBC1.5, or ICS1.5, where the validator sets are implicit, for fast
inter-hub communication with implied IBC, WITHOUT sacrificing independent BFT
consensus layers.

XXX add more

## 8. Transparent Security System

Create a permissioned and fully accountable, and 100% predetermined-finite-
time-delayed transparent security reporting system. Ensure that ABSOLUTELY
ALL information within the system eventually becomes public knowledge to help
deal with zero day vulnerabilities and current attacks & fund it.

## 9. Fund SubDAOs

Create and support competing marketing, growth, infra, dapp subDAOs, and
especially help them foster the best in class in Cosmos; from the user level
down to the VM, every component should have a good selection of competition.

See https://gitub.com/gnolang/gno
TODO add more smart contract projects.

## 10. Engineering Task Force

Create a team tasked with minimizing and simplifying code and reducing
unnecessary dependencies, taking the best examples from various forks taken
into consideration, so that all the best ideas from all forks can integrate
into one where-ever possible. FINISH software.

See https://github.com/gnolang/gno/tree/master/tm2 for Tendermint2

## 11. Enable Meiosis

Ossify the partyhub after it has become its own competing IBC/ICS hub. Allow
others to likewise fork from you by enabling ICA partyhubs when there is
disagreement. Multiply by meiosis and conquer the world.

AtomOne will lead the way in demonstrating a more secure system for splitting
off new generations of partyhubs as a necessary course of action of last resort
in the face of gridlock and friction. ICA-based (interchain-account) partyhubs
with independent validator sets introduce additional security risks associated
with the behavior of the other validator set securing said partyhub--unlike
shards secured under ICS1.x by the original hub itself.

In an ideal scenario, once AtomOne is complete in functionality and has proven
itself, it and its supporters will guide Gaia to adopt the same secure
splitting system so that Gaia AND AtomOne can both have a richly diverse
partyhub set representing many diverse parties each with their own
philosophies, expertise, concerns, and jurisdictions.

See https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/1224 for prototype WIP of splitting.

----------------------------------------
# Plan

The AtomOne hub exists as a separate minimalist fork of Gaia. Both are separate
and distinct from gno.land, though gno.land and the GnoVM (as well as other
VMs) will play significant roles in completing the hub and maintaining its
upkeep.

The main goal is to fix what must be fixed in governance and the need for an
explicit constitution, before launching the full IBC and ICS functionality of
the chain.

First we describe the tokenomics of the AtomOne hub, followed by the main
milestones, with an emphasis on completion and even potential phase-out.

## Genesis Distribution

It should be some distribution of the Cosmos Hub $ATOM1 token with those who
voted against the spirit of this project slashed because they never joined to
use the system int he first place (e.g. they were more interested in price
appreciation of original $ATOM).

Additionally, the Interchain Foundation playing a key role in the evolution of
the hub, should also be removed.

Finally, 10% of the $ATOM1s are premined for various purposes.

The $ATOM1s in genesis are locked and cannot be transferred due to the value of
the parameter ENABLE_SENDTX except for chosen addresses (e.g. for faucets).

The Genesis Distribution is largely an opinionated fork of the cosmoshub4 $ATOM
(judged by alignment based on voting activity, to slash those who don't align,
or those who aren't interested in using our chain).

The Interchain Foundation will be excluded from this distribution, so as to create
a separation of concerns, and instead 10% of the final total amount will be
allocated toward contributors and onchain DAOs.

Of the 10% premine, 
 - 1% to general pre-launch contributors and early adopters.
 - 1% reserved for IBC contributions (and all that it entails) and early
   adopters.
 - 1% reserved for ICS1.5 contributors (and all that it entails thereafter)
   and early adopters.
 - 7% reserved for gov distribution to subDAOs for remainder of plan and
   constitution (but nothing more).

In addition to these premines, the earned tax revenue (rewards) and inflation
will be split as per the following:
 - 80% of the inflation+rewards going to the stakers who select validators.
 - 10% of the inflation+rewards going to active validators equally.
 -  5% of the inflation+rewards going to general commons pool with no standalone governance.
 -  2% of the inflation+rewards going to pool for open source blockchain explorer hosting.
 -  2% of the inflation+rewards going to pool for securing open source wallet systems (w/ airgap).
 -  1% of the inflation+rewards going to pool for public relations and growth.

A parameter MIN_STAKER_DISTRIBUTION_FRACTION will be set to 80%, where the
percent of inflation+rewards going to stakers cannot be lower than this figure.
Changing this value requires a constitutional majority.

A parameter MIN_VALIDATORS_DISTRIBUTION_FRACTION will be set to 10%, where the percent
of inflation+rewards going to stakers cannot be lower than this figure.

The funds held in all the pools above will not be counted toward the bonding ratio.

The last three following the pool/treasury will initially go to multisigs set in
consensus params of the chain, until they get set as URIs pointing at
blockchain based DAOs hosted on ICS1.5.

## Tokenomics

We opt to replace the market-based "commission" system with a flat
distribution to all validators, to incentivize the creation of peer validators
(who should all plan to become datacenter providers).

The maximum bounds on the auto-adjust inflation parameter will be set at 20%.

The inflation will target 2/3 of $ATOM1 to be bonded. 

### ICS Fee Distribution
Every ICS zone should be paid for somehow. AtomOne owned ICS shards should be
paid for from the treasury of AtomOne.  Other ICS "consumer chains" can be paid
for by the the chain itself, and in emergencies anyone can step in and pay on
the zone's behalf.

In short, every ICS zone should be profitable to every validator.

The DISTRIBUTION_FRACTION parameter is the fraction (between 0 and 1) of ICS
shard and consumer chain payments that are shared among the validators equally.
This is initially set to 0.8, giving the majority to the validators, and only
20% as royalty to be paid to $ATOM1 stakers, with the COMMUNITY_TAX taking its
portion.

### Staking

The main difference being introduced is that the total amount of stake going to
one validator doesn't actually increase the validator's power, even though all
of those staked $ATOM1s are at stake should this validator get slashed. This
creates a potential exploit opportunity whereby some validators have relatively
little at stake, and 1/3 by total of voting power of those initial validators end
up causing a double spend attack. To prevent this, overstaking to a validator
will be taxed incrementally with the proceeds going toward general rewards.

XXX TODO improve this. Maybe instead there is simply a sqrt(vp) applied to all
the voting powers after the original Gaia staking algorithm. You can over-stake
to a validator but your voting power and returns will be much less, almost
inverse to the amount of overstaking.

Suppose that 1/3 of the $ATOM1 stakers are slashed due to a complex double
spend attack. Assuming that we want to allow the recompensation of victims upon
double spend attacks (within the bounds specified clearly in the constitution)
only from the recently slashed $ATOM1s, some nonzero portion of the slashed
stake must be burned to prevent using the double spend attack as a fast way to
unbond.

If no victims need to be made whole, then it could be appropriate to burn the
slashed $ATOM1s of the perpetrators. The end result is that the remaining
stakers own the network, and in a steady state this would result in the price
of $ATOM1s increasing due to the reduced supply, assuming that the confidence in
and usage of AtomOne hasn't changed; though in perfect theory it should take a
bit of a hit, at least in proportion to the destruction of the reputation of
those validators.

If victims are to be made whole with slashed $ATOM1s, this may require the
selling of $ATOM1s into the market, or result in it, therefore the price of
$ATOM1s will be pushed lower, and the composition of the $ATOM1 holders mutated
according to market conditions.

### $phATOM the Deflationary Derivative of $ATOM1

$ATOM1 isn't a monetary token, but a related instrument can serve better as
one.

Auto-staking (staking across all validators proportionally to existing voting
power) doesn't solve the "inflation problem", but it does give a way for people
who don't care about staking decisions to make better-than-random staking
decisions.

TODO show simplest example that demonstrates slashing.

Auto-staking if done by an external IBC zone, or an individual staker manually,
would like any other staking earn the pro-rata revenue and pay the various
taxes. So auto-staking per se does not make for a deflationary holding, but it
comes with the benefit of automatic diversification.

Since it comes with benefits to the staker (diversification and thus less risk)
but it doesn't provide the needed intelligence to AtomOne, it is better for the
AtomOne hub to provide a standard minimal correct implementation under its
control, such that it can also regulate it, especially as it relates to control
over AtomOne governance.

Say when you auto-stake $ATOM1 through this sanctioned mechanism, you get
$phATOM. In order to incentivize the usage of $phATOM, the AtomOne hub offers a
trade that makes $phATOM deflationary: non-atom rewards nor taxes are applied
to auto-staked $ATOM1 bonded $phATOM holders, and with the right conversion
equation (which adjusts for $ATOM1 inflation) we can construct a perfectly fixed
$phATOM supply (say of 1 billion $phATOMs) no matter how many $ATOM1s bond to
$phATOMs.

Should this "more monetary" construction of the fixed supply ("deflationary")
$phATOM token incentivize a large liquid supply, it becomes more susceptible to
hostile takeovers, simply because there are more liquid $ATOM1 staking tokens
available in comparison to the total bonded voting power. Therefore for a more
secure AtomOne hub we also limit the conversion back from $phATOM to $ATOM1 so
as to make hostile takeovers more expensive.

The known ways are:
 * Widen the gap in bidirectional conversion price between $phATOM and $ATOM1.
 * Limit the amount of $ATOM1 that can be released per time period auction.
 * Essentially the same as above with some conversion curve.

In the case of validator & delegator $ATOM1 slashing, $phATOM holders will of
course also get slashed, but the ratio of $phATOM-bonded $ATOM1s and all other
(non-$phATOM) $ATOM1s remains the same. The conversion factor from $phATOM to
$ATOM1 will change because of slashing, but the conversion factor from $ATOM1
to $phATOM will not before and after slashing, thereby making the total
possible supply of $phATOM lower than before (more deflationary) and over time
making the cost of conversion to $phATOM more expensive in comparison to the
inverse, thereby allowing the exchange rate between the two tokens to naturally
float between two reasonable bounds.

NOTE: This uses the market imperfection of the $ATOM1 and $phATOM tokens to
create a (larger) gap in the conversion price, thereby making the tokens more
independent of each other. $phATOM holders might be happy that their token has
become more deflationary (total supply reduction), and while they can only get
the post slash amount of $ATOM1s, the value of those $ATOM1s might be preserved
or catch up soon after new validators start operations. The alternative where
the total amount of $phATOM remains invariant in comparison appears strictly
worse for $phATOM holders. This widening of the gap could in theory happen at
any time with governance.

The $ATOM1s bonded toward auto-staking do not count toward calculating the
bonding ratio target of 2/3 in either the numerator or denominator--they are
ignored.

TODO: add benefits over liquid staking and collective "liquid staking".

## AtomOne Governance

Ultimately this hub is owned by the $ATOM1 holders. 

We will prioritize all of these items:
[github.com/decentralists/DAO](https://github.com/decentralists/DAO/tree/main/governance)

The constitutional majority threshold is defined by the parameter
CONSTITUTIONAL_MAJORITY_THRESHOLD initially set to 90%, and requires a
constitutional majority to change.

The constitution itself must be amended by a constitutional majority.

## Milestones

There are largely four phases to this plan.

### AtomOne Phase 1: Pre-IBC

1. Define Constitution
2. Governance Fixes
3. Launch Governance-Only Chain
4. Implement IBC

### AtomOne Phase 2: Post-IBC

1. $PHOTON with Auto-Staking
2. Fix Validator Incentives
3. Implement ICS1.5
4. Prototypes with SubDAOs (including GNO)

### AtomOne Phase 3: ICS1.5 scaling

1. Migrate $PHOTON to ICS
2. Promote Smart Contract Use Cases
3. Develop Scalable Validator Infrastructure
4. Develop Recovery Procedures

### AtomOne Phase 4: Maintenance

1. Create OnChain Education Curriculum
2. Promote Good Forks and Projects
3. Promote Other Common Goods
4. Finalize the Software

Finalization should not be seen as a thing to avoid, but rather a necessity for
preserving immutability and thus providing real security benefits.

Everyone who wants something different is given a way to create their own
variation to compete and cooperate with the AtomOne hub. We should all be
familiar with this concept, as it is how AtomOne itself was born--by exodus
from Gaia.

It is possible that what we arrive at is not sufficient in the long run, and
that is still OK; the ultimate goal is to be a standard reference, in the very
least in relation to an improved fork; a reference that will last a thousand
years or more.

In short, the goal is nothing more than to create timeless code, even knowing
that in the end even AtomOne will be phased out, but never forgotten; the
template will have split into a million different forks and conquered the
world.

AtomOne Eschatology will be well documented and planned, for a time when nobody
was around for these early beginnings.

----------------------------------------
# FAQ

## AtomOne vs Gaia
AtomOne is designed as an alternative fork of Gaia with a distinct focus
on minimalism in its ICS & Token IBC hub. This results in a leaner, more
efficient architecture. In terms of governance, AtomOne introduces a
higher consensus threshold (Constitutional Majority) and emphasizes
decentralized decision-making.

## AtomOne vs Gno.land

Gno.land will be a hub for GnoVM based smart contracts. It may benefit from
ICS1.5 in the future, but we will first offer GnoVM scaling on the AtomOne ICS
economic zone. Gno.land will not connect to Gaia except indirectly through
AtomOne, or its minimal successor.

## AtomOne & Tendermint2

NewTendermint, LLC will lead Tendermint2 development, and AIB, Inc will
contribute by building its own engineering team within AIB, Inc that will
transition into long term co-maintainers of AtomOne, and co-members of
gno.land. 

AtomOne is a collaborative project that includes many members including AIB Inc
and NewTendermint, LLC. Any rights to the brand of AtomOne that NewTendermint
might have (or not have) is donated to the sovereignty of the AtomOne hub, or
managed by AIB Inc on behalf of the hub.

----------------------------------------
# TODO

 - [ ] Complete the CONSTITUTION w/ all known functionality
 - [ ] Reconcile this README with CONSTITUTION
 - [ ] Incorporate the "Constitutional Majority" in the Constitution.
 - [ ] Check for consistency w/ Decentralists DAO governance roadmap.
 - [ ] Keplr & Ledger need competition.
 - [ ] Consider referencing https://twitter.com/jaekwon/status/1724641822398681547 with more insight.
 - [ ] Roadmap Timeline
 - [ ] Links to Additional Resources such as technical documentation, or community forums, for in-depth information.
 - [ ] Channels for reaching out to the core team or support, especially for technical support or collaboration inquiries.
 - [ ] Scan through twitter posts for more ideaas.
 - [ ] Argument for why hub and spokes are needed (from atom one)
 - [ ] Quantum resistance
 - [ ] Constitution updates: $ATOM -> $ATOM1; Add $phATOM and $phATOM1; conversion
 - [ ] At least one week for decentralists feedback on proposals that meet the
   spam threshold.
 - [ ] Proposals should be self contained no PDF necessary.
 - [ ] Create Decentralists file and add membership policy.
 - [ ] Document Decentralists local split support mandate.
 - [ ] Document AtomOne/Decentralists global split scenarios.
 - [ ] XXX

 ----------------------------------------
 # UNSORTED (TRASH/TMP/BACKUP)

##### decentralists...
The initial implementations of UX will be provided by anyone or any community
that wants to implement the whole vertical stack required from maintaining a
chain to the end user interfaces required. AIB & NT along with those aligned
with the GnoVM will work on one implementation, but all reasonable stacks
will be supported such as those that run on (Cosm)WASM as long as there is a
responsible party willing to commit.

Create tooling to help members register themselves with their associations,
and to allow these members to self-organize into open and closed (yet
transparent) groups in a permissionless way. Each group should have their
own respective founding documents, constitution, mission, bylaws, etc.
Companies as entities also get representation, and everyone must declare
their associations and use their real identities (in order to prevent sybil
attacks).

 * Fix the governance functions from the CosmosSDK and port these and core sdk
   modules to Tendermint2.
 * Implement AtomOne according to the specifications here and other Founding
   Documents linked to from here, and make payments for these purposes from an
   internal Decentralists Treasury separate from the AtomOne community pool,
   and conduct releases according to the roadmap specified here and other
   Founding documents with oversight by the $ATOM1 stakers.

AtomOne will subsidize at least one ICS shard if needed, to serve as the zone
for the Decentralists' dapp/DAO needs, including hosting a dapp for
self-organized conversations.

These arguments provided by the Decentralists for and against every proposal
and the default ranking of them by the Decentralists are not hosted on the root
hub, but shall not be deployed until they are hosted on a separate ICS zone. 
